>> Scott Moss: Was everyone able to
convert over their app using Express?
Pretty simple, right?
So again, if you're thinking about
using Serverless in Lambda and
you have an Express app, and
your manager is telling you that you can't
do it because it's gonna take forever.
Then you can just do that this weekend.
And say, look I already did it.
And then it can't say anything.
And then you just show them the numbers of
how much money they're gonna be saving.
And they're gonna be like.
But then you try to connect to
the database and you're like,
actually, we can't do it.
[LAUGH] If anyone wants to talk about
connecting databases in Lambda,
we can definitely do that after this
next module cuz, yeah, good luck.
Were there any questions about that?
Did anybody notice any patterns?
Was there anything different
using Express on Lambda
than you might have experienced using
Express on a traditional server?
And if so, what were those differences
that you might have examined?
>> Scott Moss: Nothing there?
And, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Well, I mean,
I guess an immediate question that comes
to mind that I didn't experience, but
I definitely thought about while we were
on break was using Express as a server
naturally leads to all kinds of questions
that you have with an Express server.
>> Scott Moss: Right.
>> Speaker 2: What kind of
Middleware am I gonna use to manage flow?
>> Scott Moss: Right.
>> Speaker 2: What resources is my Express
server gonna use for authentication and
logging and all that kind of stuff?
>> Scott Moss: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: Is that all manageable in
the AWS environment or no?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, and
this is kind of what I was saying with
the question in the chatroom is it's so
nice to have Express on Lamba.
But then you get caught of thinking about
what you would do in a traditional Express
server, which is on a server,
which is all of that stuff.
But in reality you probably wouldn't do
authorization on that Express server.
You'd have another Lambda for that.
Or your Middleware would
be very basic because
most of the Middleware you're doing could
probably offload it to another Lambda.
So there's a lot of things you would, the
way I would like to think about is just
think of Express as just the routing,
and forget everything else you did.
Because yes, you can do everything
you just described, but
at the end of the day you just have
a huge Express app on a Lambda function.
And it's like what benefit
are you getting from that?
And it's probably going to be worse,
because it's probably slower most likely.
Depending on where your setup was.
And you're not taking advantage
of anything else that
a Lambda could offer you.
So you might be saving money, maybe.
Maybe you'll save some money,
but that's about it.
>> Speaker 2: I guess a follow up
question to that was, I wonder if anyone,
I mean basically by using Express
you are putting in a lot of baggage
in the node modules that Webpack
is just gonna remove anyway.
I wonder if there are already exist
library out there that's just
basically just, [CROSSTALK] Routing?
>> Scott Moss: Just the routing.
Yeah, tons of them.
There's at least a hundred of them.
You can just type in, I mean, there are so
many of them like node, [CROSSTALK] I
should be using that instead of Express.
Yeah, I think the Express one is
literally just a transitioning over.
It's like, cool,
how do we get from here to here?
All right, boom, place it in.
Now, let's start taking things out and
making it more lightweight,
and that's kinda
the approach I would take.
Type in node routing and
the first thing that comes up is Express.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: SEO is strong.
But yeah, there's tons of routers.
Or you could've went down the path that I
was saying where you just make your own
hash table, state machine and
do it yourself.
But yeah, there's tons of them out there.
Are there any other questions
with Express and Serverless and
how those things combine together?
Everybody understands how that works?
It's not a long live server,
even though you have Express.
It's still just a Lambda function.
All right?
Okay, cool.
Next thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna talk about testing.
But I did wanna talk about,
I think it's a good
opportunity to talk about
some gotchas in here.
Or something that are, somethings you
just wouldn't really know unless you just
kinda like mess like Express.
I'm sorry, Serverless profile.
So let me check out to lesson-3-solution.
This just has my test on it.
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
okay, I'm fine with that.
>> Scott Moss: My God.
>> Scott Moss: Okay.
So, a couple of things to note here is
that,
>> Scott Moss: Looks
like my solution's like,
yeah, I broke it out.
Okay, cool.
A couple things to note here is just for
my solution what I decided to do was kind
of like what I would do in a traditional
app whereas I wouldn't,
if I make an Express app I don't
start the Express server in the same
file that I create the Express server.
And that's because I want to be able to
export that app instance from Express and
test it without starting a server.
So I always start
the server in another file.
So that's kinda what I did here
when I started the server.
So I create the Express out here.
I export it and then in another file
I actually require and do the thing.
And that allows me to be a little test
everything in this file without having to
interact with all the business logic here.
So that's kind of the solution I did.
And that's just like
having this testable code.
Eventually you break all the stuff out
into all different other types of things,
but that's just the approach I took.
But the things I wanted to
talk about were understanding
things like closures, and caching, and
that stuff inside of Lambda cuz they
actually do have effects, side effects.
So this function right here,
this is our handler.
This is the actual Lambda function that's
going to be invoked, this is the entry.
Whatever state you declare out here
while the container is still used and
the Lambda is still hot it's
basically cache, it's closure.
So you could have side effects in here.
So this can be useful and
this can also be dangerous.
This is useful for things like
databases where you would cache
a database connection so
it's not always reconnecting.
And this kind of how you get
around this software databases.
But it can also be dangerous if you
declare some object out here and
you're mutating the object somewhere in
this function on every single request, and
you're having these bugs where
everybody is getting different values.
And you're like,
I don't know what's going on.
Also, cuz you're mutating this object
in a closer inside of this Lambda.
So you gotta remember that cuz
the container has the same memory.
It's the same container.
So if you keep it here it's
gonna hold a reference to it.
So that can be used in your advantage.
It could also be used
to your disadvantage.
So just be wary of that.
We really ran into that problem so
many times.
And then when I ran to the problem of
how do I keep it dated it's connection
over open,
I realized it like I could just do that
thing that got me stuck like a week ago.
So, [LAUGH] that's how that worked out.
Any questions on that,
this might not understand what I mean but
I like the closures and mutations
basically, I just walk through it.
But If I had this function here,
>> Scott Moss: And
I had an object says state,
if I came in here and
was just like state.name =,
>> Scott Moss: Right,
I'm changing the state up here.
It's in a closure.
So as long as its container is
still open this is the same state,
it's the same object.
So I'm mutating that state and
I could possibly have side effects.
All right, so
you gotta be careful of that.
So if you are keeping state outside of
your handlers for better or for worse, and
you don't intend to have side effects
just make sure you keep everything
stateless and mutable.
So instead of doing that you
might do something like,
>> Scott Moss: And then now you just
made a new object based off of that,
you put a name there.
So it's immutable now.
So just be wary of that.
[LAUGH] It will bite you and
you would not know what's going on,
cuz it just will not tell you.
And if you have a frame or Express you
won't even know where the closure is.
You would be like, I don't even
know where the handler starts or
where the closure ends.
You just won't even know what's going on.
So just be careful with that.
My advice is just put
everything in a function.
Put everything in a function, you're fine.
You would never have this problem cuz
these functions do not reach out and
create closures.
Just put everything in a function.
Closures are not good for
Lambda unless you absolutely need to.
Does that make sense?
>> Scott Moss: Cool.
What else did I want to talk
about before I get to testing?
>> Scott Moss: I think that's it.
Most of the other stuff
is really advanced.
Any other questions?
Specific things so far?
I mean so far what you've learned about
Lambda is basically all you need to know
about deploying Lambdas.
You all could just deploy
Lambdas on AWS right now and
you'd be totally well equipped to do it.
You will run into problems if things
go sideways for sure, as we all do.
But you are more than well equipped to go
deploy some Lambdas, so congratulations.
If I had a certificate and
a printer I'd print some out.
I don't have that.
[LAUGH] So, [LAUGH]